The Joe Rogan experience. Oh, I, sir, I'm doing good. See you, man.
What does it feel like? What does it feel like having step back? You step away,
you get to look at it from a fresh perspective. What does this feel like? It.
It feels good, man. It, it feels, uh, I think the biggest thing with me, Joe,
is there's satisfaction in my life. You know what I'm saying?
I've done so much in the sport and I can compare myself a little bit to
Daniel. You know,
Daniel would have beat steeper meal chick and he would have retired on top of my
head. You could almost say retired at the two division world champ.
And that I don't feel like I have that chip on my shoulder. You know,
as a wrestler, I retired from the Olympics at a very young age, you know,
decided to come back three years later, but you know what I mean? It was,
it was already done. You know what I mean? I retired at the age of 21.
And then now at the age of 33, I'm, I'm,
I'm truly calling it quits unless there's,
there's a couple of fights that if I do come back, I like that word, unless.
I like that word. Yeah.
And as you know, and, and, and, and,
and a little bit it's before it was about the money, a little bit with the UFC,
and obviously, you know, everybody does have a price, but I think there's,
there's, there's a fight that I would really like in the USC.
And that would be against Alexander Vulcan. Norske.
Real. Yeah. If 35 at 45.
If they were to give me an opportunity to go up and obviously be compensated,
then that would be a fight that would really,
that would really wake me up in the morning. Be like, Hey man, this is,
this is a challenge is a whole new mountain,
a chance to be a three division world champion,
a chance to be a through division world champion. As you know,
a lot of people have counted me out against Demetrius against TJ,
against Marlin. Maybe, maybe it was you.
Too, Joe. That's what I love about it.
You can't find any evidence to me counting you out, sir.
So I.
Love that. I love challenges. And south was a kid. I knew I was,
I knew I was different and you all special. And, uh,
these are the things that you knew, like what, what separates you? Oh my God.
I think it's, I think it's a couple of things that follows to explain it to you.
Like what's, what's made me successful in, and I've seen it, you know,
being at the Olympic training center as a high school kid and living out there
for four years.
And that's actually where I met Daniel and I was a six year old kid when I first
met these guys and I was able to analyze a lot of the greats, like, you know,
uh, Stephen NAB is Daniel Cormier, a lot of the Olympic team. And, uh,
what I've learned now that the age of 33,
I learned that there's been two things that have separated me from,
from the rest of the pack. It's, it's, it's two things.
It's what I call heart and ability.
And I was actually able to tell this story to, uh, to chop tree, you know, the,
the fodder and CEO of one FC. And, uh, you know,
so it's two things. I call it heart and ability to what is your heart?
Your heart is your passion, your wheel, your desire, your determination,
your heart is something that you want to suffer for in order to obtain. Now,
the next one is ability. You know, ability is as a gift that you have since,
since she knows it's a coordination, it's,
it's something that you've wrapped over time where you become a master at it.
And what happens a lot of time.
It's I always tell people it's good to question one or the other.
It's good to question the mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
The heart or the ability,
because to be the 1% of the one percenters,
like both of these things have to match what happens is a lot of people have
heart, but their abilities, I way down here, you know,
their ability does it match their heart or their abilities up here.
And they're just a little lazy and can't really put the, you know,
because there is a separation between mind and body and your job is to connect
them both. And I, and I'm going to use an example, uh, with Marla Mirage,
he saw me getting my kicked. He saw me getting laid kicked, you know,
from the first hallway to the second round,
but I knew that I had to connect and, and make that transition.
That was a combination of combined the heart and the ability, you know,
so I was able to kind of, so what separated me, I'd say that I think is being,
being gifted through the ability and then just having, uh, a passion of will.
That's your second to none.
There's a lot of other factors though. Isn't that there's like not just ability.
It's also,
you have to be coached by someone who really knows what they're doing. It's,
there's,
there's so many guys out there that are really tough and they have will,
and they, they work out hard and they're in shape,
but they just make technical mistakes and they've never corrected them those
mistakes. Yeah.
Well, I think that also goes back on the ability, uh,
I would put that in to the ability portion.
The reason why is because you got to put yourself in the right situations.
Like I didn't start winning until I let go of my coaches.
The first time I lost it, Demetrius Johnson, who was a man, I,
it was hard. And this sounds, this is some very crazy and cynical,
but it was kind of hard to blame myself,
even though I was traded because I knew coming from the Olympic sport that I had
a coach that could take me to the top and there was no ifs, or what's like,
I knew he knew the recipe and it may was still a fairly new and it's still
fairly new sport. So I knew that I had to find the professors.
I knew that I had to find the scientists and all this again,
in order for me to become that perfect storm. So that's exactly what we did.
You know, putting, putting the science, the recovery of find the right coaches,
listening to my ability to understand in my bomb mechanics,
like it was a mixture of, of, of all these things. That's,
that's made that separated me from the first time I fought Demetrius till just
be not just being a latching killer man,
to being all these guys that they said that, you know, Demetrius Johnson, TJ,
you know, Mala, Mariah's Dominick Cruz, man. That's, that's.
A hell of a list. Joe lists, you know, it's a hell of a list.
It's one of the reasons.
Why it bums me out that you retired like two conflicting feelings,
one I'm happy, I'm happy, retired, young and healthy,
and you could do anything you want, man.
I really believe a guy who can accomplish what you accomplished inside the
octagon and also winning an Olympic gold medalist.
You winning Olympic gold medal in wrestling at 21 years old,
retiring from the sport, then getting into MMA, being,
coming a two division world champion in MMA,
and then stepping away while you're still healthy.
And at the peak of your abilities, part of me loves that.
I love the fact that you did what you wanted to do, and then you step away.
But part of me looks back at like say,
when you fought Benevidez or say, when you fought Demetrius the first time,
and then it looks at you now, like you're a completely different animal.
Nobody had been able to shut down Dominick Cruz's footwork game,
but you came in and just chop the out of his legs, just right off the bat.
You, you,
whatever advantage we thought that he would have with his foot work and
movement, what was actually becoming a disadvantage because you,
you were using that against him. You, you,
you found the angles and you found the perfect times to attack his legs,
and then you put them away, which is also something no one's ever done before.
Except Uriah caught him in a submission and finish finished them.
But no one was ever putting them away, put them away the way you did.